# Accelerating Vehicle Fleet Turnover  to Achieve Sustainable Mobility Goals
## Authors: Sergey Naumov, David Keith, and John Sterman
## Year: 2022
## Journal: Journal of Operations Management
## DOI: https://doi.org/10.1002/joom.1173
## Abstract:
Reducing carbon emissions from the U.S. transportation sector is crucial to achieving societal climate goals.  Recent efforts by policymakers have focused on increasing consumer adoption of low- or zero- emission vehicles such as battery electric vehicles (BEVs). Nevertheless, sales of BEVs remain low. Worse, even if market share for BEVs jumped dramatically, it would take decades to replace the existing vehicle fleet, during which time vehicle greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions would continue to accumulate in the atmosphere. Consequently, some argue for policies that accelerate the retirement of inefficient gasoline-powered vehicles through “cash-for-clunkers” (C4C) programs. We consider how a C4C policy would best be designed to maximize GHG emissions reduction while also examining possible co-benefits for domestic automobile manufacturing. We develop a model of vehicle fleet turnover in the U.S. to explore alternative C4C policies, finding that to meet emissions reductions goals, ‘cash-for-clunkers’ policies should incentivize electric vehicles only, alongside a rapid transition to renewable electricity. We demonstrate that such policies can substantially reduce vehicle fleet emissions, but that implementation costs remain relatively high. Combining ‘cash-for-clunkers’ with a gas tax or carbon price would help offset the costs incurred while also reducing driving demand, promoting a timely low-emissions transition.

